SoftwareDesignDocument.MD, before:

DCAF Generic Motion Plugin Project <br />
Requirements Specification <br />
v. 0.1 <br />

# Introduction
## Purpose
  This document is to describe the architecture of the DCAF Softmotion Module. This document does not explain the DCAF architecture – please view the DCAF documentation. 
## Scope
  The DCAF Softmotion module is aimed towards simplifying the experience of creating embedded motion systems. Through DCAF and this module, the user would not need to write motion specific code but instead send commands through tags to the motion module. 
## Overview
  The DCAF Softmotion module is aimed towards simplifying the experience of creating embedded motion systems. Through DCAF and this module, the user would not need to write motion specific code but instead send commands through tags to the motion module. The module's requirements and design come from the DS402 Motion Over EtherCAT standard. While the module does not aim to create an EtherCAT slave, it uses the same command/response tag-based architecture from the DS402 standard and attempts to implement the same move types.<br />
  This project contains 3 main pieces. The first is the implementation of the moves and of the concept of an axis. This class is made to be overridden if you need to implement a different, non-softmotion axis. The second is the motion module itself. This module implements a state machine similar to the DS-402 one. The third is a set of tools and APIs to make working DCAF Tags easier. Because the State Machine uses a DS 402 styled Controlword and Statusword, the project contains tools to go from a status to bits. Similarly, an API is created to facilitate passing parameters to the module and reading the results.
## Reference Material
  This document references the DS 402 Motion over EtherCAT standard. 
## Definitions and Acronyms
- DCAF – Distributed Control and Automation Framework.
- Sequencer – code module that choses what steps the system needs to take. For example, the Sequencer checks a safety input then moves a motor to close a valve.
- Axis – the software description of the motion hardware and its control system. The system commands a Moves on the Axis, which then communicates with the hardware as necessary.
- Coordinate System – a logical grouping of axis. Generally they describe a physical component (such as a gantry) or a full system (all of the axis in a machine). They often require synchronization.
# System Overview
  The DCAF Softmotion Module is added to the configuration editor as any other module. It comes with a series of inputs and outputs for commands, parameters, results and status updates. This module will implement the basic kinds of moves and use the terminology of the DS 402 standard. This is because the DS 402 standard defines a tag based command scheme which fits the DCAF use-case. 
Each instance of the module commands one axis or coordinate system. 
# System Architecture
## Architectural Design
- This project contains 3 main pieces.
- The first is the implementation of the moves and of the concept of an axis. This class is made to be overridden if you need to implement a different, non-softmotion axis.
- The second is the motion module itself. This module implements a state machine similar to the DS-402 one.
- The third is a set of tools and APIs to make working DCAF Tags easier. Because the State Machine uses a DS 402 styled Controlword and Statusword, the project contains tools to go from a status to bits. Similarly, an API is created to facilitate passing parameters to the module and reading the results.
![SDD_DCAF_Commands_Image](https://github.com/LabVIEW-DCAF/MotionModule/blob/Documentation_Update/trunk/RepoResources/SDD_DCAF_Command.bmp)
## Design Rationale
  The project leans heavily on the DS 402 standard because it is a tag-based motion scheme. This means that a new communication scheme does not need to be created, and users familiar with the DS 402 standard should more easily understand this scheme. However, instead of creating a large amount of tags for the PDOs/SDOs, an array as Parameters and one as Results will be used. The Sequencer will then write and read those tags to switch the target mode or get motion I/O info, among other events.
# Data Design
## Data Description
- The Module needs access to 5 main pieces of data **from the engine**. First, it needs to have knowledge of what Axis it is communicating with. This is set up in the DCAF Configuration Editor. Note that the user should not need to manipulate these words. Instead, a series of utilities (such as Command to Word, or Word to Command, or Status to Word) will act as a translation layer as per the diagram above.	<br />
- Second and third, a Controlword and Statusword are used to send commands to the module and receive status information back. These are done as per the DS402 standard. <br />
- Fourth, a parameter array contains information on the command to execute when the Controlword contains a command to begin a move, or to read the parameters. The first element in the array is the Mode (Equivalent to PDO XXXX), the rest of the elements are interpreted as per this first element. <br />
- Fifth, a results array contains information on the system. The first value is used to decide how to interpret the rest of the values. On every iteration where the Controlword is not asking the motion module to give back a specific result, it will return the status of the Motion I/O and the position, velocity and acceleration of the axis.<br />
  For the fourth and fifth element, the arrays will concatenate the information on each axis. <br />
### Axis
  The axis or coordinate system to be used is passed from the engine as a string. If the axis is a Softmotion axis, the API for creating references is passed this string and it creates the softmotion reference.
### Controlword
  The controlword is the main way that the engine commands the module. It is composed of a U16, where each bit has a specific meaning. The first 4 and bit 6 are generic, while the other ones are dependent on the mode - taken from the DS402 standard.<br />

|Reserved | Reserved | Halt | Fault reset | Op Mode Specific | Enable Op | Quick Stop | Enable Voltage | Switch On|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|15-11|10-9|8|7|4-6|3|2|1|0|

Command examples:<br />

| Command :| Fault reset (7)| Enable Operation (3) | Quick stop (2) | Enable Voltage (1) | Switch on (0) |
|----------|----------------|----------------------|----------------|--------------------|---------------|
|Shutdown|0|x|1|1|0|
|Switch On|0|0|1|1|1|
|Disable Voltage|0|x|x|0|x|
|Quick Stop|0|x|0|1|x|
|Disable Op|0|0|1|1|1|
|Enable Op|0|1|1|1|1|
|Fault Reset|1|x|x|x|x|
  
### Statusword
Similarly, the main communication back from the module is through the form of a Statusword, also as per the DS402 standard.

| State                  |7|6|5|4| |3|2|1|0|
|------------------------|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| Not Ready to Switch On |x|0|x|x| |0|0|0|0|
| Switch On Disabled     |x|1|x|x| |0|0|0|0|
| Ready to Switch On     |x|0|1|x| |0|0|0|1|
| Switched On            |x|0|1|x| |0|0|1|1|
| Op Enabled             |x|0|1|x| |0|1|1|1|
| Quick Stop Active      |x|0|0|x| |0|1|1|1|
| Fault Reaction Active  |x|0|x|x| |1|1|1|1|
| Fault                  |x|0|x|x| |1|0|0|0|

### Parameters

The parameters array is interpreted depending on the type of move to be done. The first value in the array is the mode itself. Note that some lists for the subarrays start with 1. It refers to the element number, not the array index. So, Position Profile Mode, for example, the element "mode" is the element number 1 in the array, so index 0.<br />

0. Reserved
1. Profile Position Mode
2. Velocity Mode
3. Profile Velocity Mode
4. Profile Torque Mode
5. Reserved 2 (Numbered as 2 because the internal representation of the value, LabVIEW enum, does not allow for repeated names)
6. Reference Mode
7. Inteporlated Position Mode
8. Skip (Internal message used to skip a command in the case of a status change)
<br />

1. Profile Position Mode
    1. Mode
    2. Position
    3. Velocity
    4. Acceleration
    
6. Reference Move Mode
    1. Mode
    2. Reference Type (home, limit, index, etc)
    3. Start Search Forward? (bool)
    4. Stop on Forward Edge? (bool)
    5. Approach Forward? (bool)
    7. Velocity
    8. Acceleration
### Results
The results are populated in the array as per the following list. <br />

0. Position Setpoint
1. Position Feedback
2. Velocity Feedback
4. Motion I/O

The Motion I/O is a double composed of a boolean array:
1. Forward Limit Active
2. Rev Limit Active
3. Home Active
4. Forward SW Limit Active
5. Reverse SW Limit Active
6. Drive Fault Active
7. Drive Ready
8. Target Reached Active


# Component Design
  In this section, we take a closer look at what each component does in a more systematic way. If you gave a functional description in section 3.2, provide a summary of your algorithm for each  function listed in 3.2 in procedural description language (PDL) or pseudocode. If you gave an  OO description, summarize each object member function for all the objects listed in 3.2 in PDL or pseudocode. Describe any local data when necessary.
# Human Interface Design
## Overview of the User Interface
## Screenshots
# Requirements Matrix

Commit message:

Updated Parameters data structure documentation
Changed the data structure documentation to mirror the fact that the positions are arrays. Additionally, changed the phrasing on the parameters description to mention that the utilities should be creating and consuming these arrays.

SoftwareDesignDocument.MD, after:

DCAF Generic Motion Plugin Project <br />
Requirements Specification <br />
v. 0.1 <br />

# Introduction
## Purpose
  This document is to describe the architecture of the DCAF Softmotion Module. This document does not explain the DCAF architecture – please view the DCAF documentation. 
## Scope
  The DCAF Softmotion module is aimed towards simplifying the experience of creating embedded motion systems. Through DCAF and this module, the user would not need to write motion specific code but instead send commands through tags to the motion module. 
## Overview
  The DCAF Softmotion module is aimed towards simplifying the experience of creating embedded motion systems. Through DCAF and this module, the user would not need to write motion specific code but instead send commands through tags to the motion module. The module's requirements and design come from the DS402 Motion Over EtherCAT standard. While the module does not aim to create an EtherCAT slave, it uses the same command/response tag-based architecture from the DS402 standard and attempts to implement the same move types.<br />
  This project contains 3 main pieces. The first is the implementation of the moves and of the concept of an axis. This class is made to be overridden if you need to implement a different, non-softmotion axis. The second is the motion module itself. This module implements a state machine similar to the DS-402 one. The third is a set of tools and APIs to make working DCAF Tags easier. Because the State Machine uses a DS 402 styled Controlword and Statusword, the project contains tools to go from a status to bits. Similarly, an API is created to facilitate passing parameters to the module and reading the results.
## Reference Material
  This document references the DS 402 Motion over EtherCAT standard. 
## Definitions and Acronyms
- DCAF – Distributed Control and Automation Framework.
- Sequencer – code module that choses what steps the system needs to take. For example, the Sequencer checks a safety input then moves a motor to close a valve.
- Axis – the software description of the motion hardware and its control system. The system commands a Moves on the Axis, which then communicates with the hardware as necessary.
- Coordinate System – a logical grouping of axis. Generally they describe a physical component (such as a gantry) or a full system (all of the axis in a machine). They often require synchronization.
# System Overview
  The DCAF Softmotion Module is added to the configuration editor as any other module. It comes with a series of inputs and outputs for commands, parameters, results and status updates. This module will implement the basic kinds of moves and use the terminology of the DS 402 standard. This is because the DS 402 standard defines a tag based command scheme which fits the DCAF use-case. 
Each instance of the module commands one axis or coordinate system. 
# System Architecture
## Architectural Design
- This project contains 3 main pieces.
- The first is the implementation of the moves and of the concept of an axis. This class is made to be overridden if you need to implement a different, non-softmotion axis.
- The second is the motion module itself. This module implements a state machine similar to the DS-402 one.
- The third is a set of tools and APIs to make working DCAF Tags easier. Because the State Machine uses a DS 402 styled Controlword and Statusword, the project contains tools to go from a status to bits. Similarly, an API is created to facilitate passing parameters to the module and reading the results.
![SDD_DCAF_Commands_Image](https://github.com/LabVIEW-DCAF/MotionModule/blob/Documentation_Update/trunk/RepoResources/SDD_DCAF_Command.bmp)
## Design Rationale
  The project leans heavily on the DS 402 standard because it is a tag-based motion scheme. This means that a new communication scheme does not need to be created, and users familiar with the DS 402 standard should more easily understand this scheme. However, instead of creating a large amount of tags for the PDOs/SDOs, an array as Parameters and one as Results will be used. The Sequencer will then write and read those tags to switch the target mode or get motion I/O info, among other events.
# Data Design
## Data Description
- The Module needs access to 5 main pieces of data **from the engine**. First, it needs to have knowledge of what Axis it is communicating with. This is set up in the DCAF Configuration Editor. Note that the user should not need to manipulate these words. Instead, a series of utilities (such as Command to Word, or Word to Command, or Status to Word) will act as a translation layer as per the diagram above.	<br />
- Second and third, a Controlword and Statusword are used to send commands to the module and receive status information back. These are done as per the DS402 standard. <br />
- Fourth, a parameter array contains information on the command to execute when the Controlword contains a command to begin a move, or to read the parameters. The first element in the array is the Mode (Equivalent to PDO XXXX), the rest of the elements are interpreted as per this first element. <br />
- Fifth, a results array contains information on the system. The first value is used to decide how to interpret the rest of the values. On every iteration where the Controlword is not asking the motion module to give back a specific result, it will return the status of the Motion I/O and the position, velocity and acceleration of the axis.<br />
  For the fourth and fifth element, the arrays will concatenate the information on each axis. <br />
### Axis
  The axis or coordinate system to be used is passed from the engine as a string. If the axis is a Softmotion axis, the API for creating references is passed this string and it creates the softmotion reference.
### Controlword
  The controlword is the main way that the engine commands the module. It is composed of a U16, where each bit has a specific meaning. The first 4 and bit 6 are generic, while the other ones are dependent on the mode - taken from the DS402 standard.<br />

|Reserved | Reserved | Halt | Fault reset | Op Mode Specific | Enable Op | Quick Stop | Enable Voltage | Switch On|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|15-11|10-9|8|7|4-6|3|2|1|0|

Command examples:<br />

| Command :| Fault reset (7)| Enable Operation (3) | Quick stop (2) | Enable Voltage (1) | Switch on (0) |
|----------|----------------|----------------------|----------------|--------------------|---------------|
|Shutdown|0|x|1|1|0|
|Switch On|0|0|1|1|1|
|Disable Voltage|0|x|x|0|x|
|Quick Stop|0|x|0|1|x|
|Disable Op|0|0|1|1|1|
|Enable Op|0|1|1|1|1|
|Fault Reset|1|x|x|x|x|
  
### Statusword
Similarly, the main communication back from the module is through the form of a Statusword, also as per the DS402 standard.

| State                  |7|6|5|4| |3|2|1|0|
|------------------------|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| Not Ready to Switch On |x|0|x|x| |0|0|0|0|
| Switch On Disabled     |x|1|x|x| |0|0|0|0|
| Ready to Switch On     |x|0|1|x| |0|0|0|1|
| Switched On            |x|0|1|x| |0|0|1|1|
| Op Enabled             |x|0|1|x| |0|1|1|1|
| Quick Stop Active      |x|0|0|x| |0|1|1|1|
| Fault Reaction Active  |x|0|x|x| |1|1|1|1|
| Fault                  |x|0|x|x| |1|0|0|0|

### Parameters

  The parameters array is interpreted depending on the type of move to be done. This array is created by the utilities "Parameters_Build_XXXX" such as "Parameters_Build_PositionMove.vi". The first value in the array is the mode itself. <br />
 
  Note that some lists for the subarrays start with 1. It refers to the element number, not the array index. So, Position Profile Mode, for example, the element "mode" is the element number 1 in the array, so index 0.<br />

0. Reserved
1. Profile Position Mode
2. Velocity Mode
3. Profile Velocity Mode
4. Profile Torque Mode
5. Reserved 2 (Numbered as 2 because the internal representation of the value, LabVIEW enum, does not allow for repeated names)
6. Reference Mode
7. Inteporlated Position Mode
8. Skip (Internal message used to skip a command in the case of a status change)
<br />

1. Profile Position Mode
    1. Mode
    2. Reserved
    3. Velocity
    4. Acceleration
    5. Acceleration Jerk (Unused)
    6. Positions [] (Array)
    
6. Reference Move Mode
    1. Mode
    2. Axis to command
    3. Reference Type (home, limit, index, etc)
    4. Start Search Forward? (bool)
    5. Stop on Forward Edge? (bool)
    6. Approach Forward? (bool)
    8. Velocity
    9. Acceleration
    
### Results
The results are populated in the array as per the following list. <br />

0. Position Setpoint
1. Position Feedback
2. Velocity Feedback
4. Motion I/O

The Motion I/O is a double composed of a boolean array:
1. Forward Limit Active
2. Rev Limit Active
3. Home Active
4. Forward SW Limit Active
5. Reverse SW Limit Active
6. Drive Fault Active
7. Drive Ready
8. Target Reached Active


# Component Design
  In this section, we take a closer look at what each component does in a more systematic way. If you gave a functional description in section 3.2, provide a summary of your algorithm for each  function listed in 3.2 in procedural description language (PDL) or pseudocode. If you gave an  OO description, summarize each object member function for all the objects listed in 3.2 in PDL or pseudocode. Describe any local data when necessary.
# Human Interface Design
## Overview of the User Interface
## Screenshots
# Requirements Matrix
